Religions
"There are several religions interwoven into Sri Lanka’s rich tapestry, but Buddhism is the belief system that lies at the core of the island’s complex culture.\n\n This philosophy swept across Asia more than 2,000 years ago and since then has influenced many elements of the Sri Lankan way of life.\n\n
With hundreds of temples dotted throughout the country, tended by monks dressed in eye-catching saffron robes, you cannot help but notice the presence of Buddhism when you visit Sri Lanka. In addition to the unmissable architecture paying homage to Lord Buddha, the peace, hospitality, and selflessness at the heart of Buddhist teaching permeates every corner of the island."

Udarata Dance
"According to the legend the origin of the dance lies in a dance ritual known as the Kohomba kankariya (named for the deity Kohomba), which is also known as Kohomba yak kankariya or kankariya.\n\n   Traditional dance masters believe that originally the king of a place referred to as 'Malaya Rata', and his two brothers performed the first Kohomba kankariya. Some believe that this 'Malaya Rata' was located in India. \n\n
According to legend, King Malaya came to the island as a result of a trick of the god Śakra in order to cure the king, Panduwasdev, who was suffering from a mysterious illness. \n\n  The king was said to be suffering from a recurring dream in which a leopard was directing its tongue towards the king, believed to be as black magic of Kuveni, the first wife of King Vijaya. After the performance of the Kohomba kankariya the illness vanished, and many natives adopted the dance."

Pahatharata
"The kolam natima belongs to a different category of ritualised mask dance than the yakun natima. Today it is rarely practised and has been gradually losing its importance over the last hundred years.\n\n The early twentieth century writer Otaker Pertold commented that, even in his day, much of the original import of the dance had been lost, and that on the few occasions that it was still performed it was undertaken by laymen rather than edura or those specifically versed in ritual dances. Because some forty masked characters are involved in this elaborate drama, with commensurate offerings expected for certain devils and demons, Pertold cites the great expense involved in staging a full kolam natima as responsible for its gradual abbreviation."

Sambaragamuwa
" Much like the pahatharata natum (low country dances) of the coastal region and the udarata natum (up country or Kandyan dances) of the hill country, the Sabaragamuwa dance tradition is thus named because it originated in the Sabaragamuwa Province. \n\n The Sabaragamuwa dances, however, don’t get as much recognition as the up country or low country dances. According to Yohan Punchinilame, a lecturer of the Department of Sabaragamuwa dance at the University of Visual and Performing Arts in Colombo, there are four territorial divisions in terms of Sabaragamuwa dance; namely that of the Ratnapura, Kalawana, Balangoda, and Badulla divisions. Each area has a slightly different version of the ritualistic dances that make up the Sabaragamuwa tradition of dance, but Ratnapura has been historically celebrated as the heart of Sabaragamuwa dance in Sri Lanka. “While the district of Kegalle now falls under the Sabaragamuwa province, during the olden days of the kings, Kegalle was a part of the Kandyan Kingdom. "

Theravada Buddhism
"Theravada Buddhism is a school of Buddhism that originated in India around 500 B.C. and is considered to be the oldest existing school of Buddhism.\n\n  The name Theravada means "the doctrine of the elders" or "the way of the elders" in Pali, the sacred language of the school. 
Theravada Buddhism is practiced in many countries, including: Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar (Burma), Sri Lanka, and Thailand."

thewatta church
"Our Lady of Lanka started its life in 1911 as a small chapel dedicated to Our Lady of Lourdes (Mary Immaculate), France. It was built by a local pastor Fr. A. Kieger and a few Catholic laymen, as a part of the parish of Ragama at that time. In 1917 another pastor, Fr. A. Collorec had a grotto built for Our Lady of Lourdes, with the assistance of Catholic workers from Colombo. The growing popularity of the chapel led to the chapel being expanded into a church in the 1930s. \n\n However, its true rise to fame occurred due to the former Archbishop of Colombo, Jean-Marie Masson. During the outbreak of the Second World War, Archbishop Masson made a vow that if Ceylon were to be protected from major conflict, he would build a Votive Basilica under the title Our Lady of Lanka. Ceylon was indeed spared from any major warfare. The archbishop was delighted and in 1946 he obtained approval from the then Pope, Pius XII, for the construction of a basilica in honour of Our Lady of Lanka."

Rathu Palli
Construction of the Jami-Ul-Alfar Mosque commenced in 1908 and the building was completed in 1909. The mosque was commissioned by the local Indian Muslim community, based in Pettah, to fulfill their required five-times-daily prayer and Jummah on Fridays. The mosque's designer and builder was Habibu Lebbe Saibu Lebbe (an unlettered architect), and was based on details/images of Indo-Saracenic structures provided by South Indian traders, who commissioned him. It is a hybrid style of architecture, that draws elements from native Indo-Islamic and Indian architecture, and combines it with the Gothic revival and Neo-classical styles. Originally it had the capacity for 1,500 worshippers although at the time only around 500 were attending prayers. It is a distinctive red and white candy-striped two-storey building, with a clock tower, and is reminiscent of the Jamek Mosque in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (constructed in 1910). Before other landmarks were built, some claim that the Jami Ul-Alfar Mosque was recognised as the landmark of Colombo by sailors approaching the port."
