udawalawa
Udawalawe National Park is a national park on the boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces in Sri Lanka. The park was created to provide a sanctuary for wild animals displaced by the construction of the Udawalawe Reservoir on the Walawe River, as well as to protect the catchment of the reservoir. The reserve covers 30,821 hectares (119.00 sq mi) of land area and was established on 30 June 1972. \n\n Before the designation of the national park, the area was used for shifting cultivation (chena farming). The farmers were gradually removed once the national park was declared. The park is 165 kilometres (103 mi) from Colombo. Udawalawe is an important habitat for water birds and Sri Lankan elephants. It is a popular tourist destination and the third-most visited park in the country.

Yala National Park
Yala (යාල) National Park is the most visited and second largest national park in Sri Lanka, bordering the Indian Ocean. The park consists of five blocks, three of which are now open to the public. There are also two adjoining parks, Kumana National Park or 'Yala East' and Lunugamvehera National Park. The blocks have individual names, such as Palatupana (Block 1). It is situated in the southeastern region of the country, in the Southern Province and Uva Province. The park covers 979 square kilometres (378 sq mi) and is located about 300 kilometres (190 mi) from Colombo. Yala was designated as a wildlife sanctuary in 1900, along with Wilpattu, designated in 1938, as the first two designated national parks in Sri Lanka. The park is best known for its variety of wildlife and is important conservation of Sri Lankan elephants, Sri Lankan leopards and aquatic birds. \n\n There are six national parks and three wildlife sanctuaries in the vicinity of Yala. Among the largest is Lunugamvehera National Park. The park is situated in the dry semi-arid climatic region and rain is received mainly during the northeast monsoon. Yala hosts a variety of ecosystems ranging from moist monsoon forests to freshwater and marine wetlands. It is one of the 70 Important Bird Areas (IBAs) in Sri Lanka. Yala harbors 215 bird species including six endemic species of Sri Lanka. The number of mammals that has been recorded from the park is 44, and it has one of the highest leopard densities in the world.

Tea Plantation ella
Ceylon tea is known all over the world for its taste and flavor. You are in Ella and why not see how your tea is made. 
Everywhere you go in the Sri Lankan highlands there are tea plantations: endless shining rows of leafy bushes in the brightest and deepest shades of green you can imagine. You can walk through the tea estates in Ella as it is enriched with full of tea plantations. You will see the pluckers are busy with their jobs and you can have a nice chat with them and also learn how to do the plucking. \n\n Yes, it is not easy without practise. There are plenty of nearby tea factories too. Closest is Uva Halpewatte factory. If you want to visit more tea factories visit Dambatenne and Newburgh which are not too far from Ella. Certainly you will love to see the tea lands and to walk through them. You will pass many while you doing the two popular hikes in Ella ELLAROCK  and MINI ADAMS PEAK.

maduru oya national park
Maduru Oya National Park (Sinhala: මාදුරු ඔය ජාතික වනෝද්‍යානය, romanized: Māduru Oya Jātika Vanōdyānaya; Tamil: மாதுரு ஓயா தேசிய பூங்கா, romanized: Māturu Ōyā Tēciya Pūṅkā) is a national park of Sri Lanka, established under the Mahaweli development project and also acts as a catchment of the Maduru Oya Reservoir. The park was designated on 9 November 1983. Providing a sanctuary to wildlife, especially for elephants and protecting the immediate catchments of five reservoirs are the importance of the park. A community of Vedda people, the indigenous ethnic group of Sri Lanka lives within the park boundary in Henanigala. The park is situated 288 kilometres (179 mi) north-east of Colombo. \n\n Degradation of Precambrian rock has effected in the creation of a mature mantled and undulating peneplain, disturbed by many prominent remnants of erosion (rock outcrops) and ridges. Imposing topographic feature is the 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) long range of rocky mountains of the south-west of the park. The geographical regime includes alluvium deposits and Miocene limestone. The major soil type is the relatively fertile but easily eroded red earth. Water systems of the park made up 15% of the land area, include five reservoirs; Maduru Oya, Ulhitiya, Ratkinda, NDK, and Henanigala reservoirs and tributaries of the Mahaweli and Maduru Oya rivers. Situated in the dry zone of Sri Lanka, the climatic conditions are dominated by the north-east monsoon, which persists from October to February. The mean annual rainfall is 1,650 millimetres (65 in) and the mean annual temperature is about 27 °C (81 °F), and overall evapotranspiration rates usually exceed precipitation levels.

Ella rock
If you love living green, then Ella is obviously a place to visit. Ella Rock is one of the place which proves it. Trekkers would love the place. It’s bit tiring to do the hiking. But it is definitely worth it. Once you got to the summit you will realize why we said so. The panoramic views it provides with mist and cloud covering the area, especially in the early mornings and the late evenings are something you should witness and that would suffice enough to say that you visited Ella. \n\n Total time for climbing up and down is 4 hours. Yes, sounds like a long journey. But the way up there is with full of diversity. If you are starting form Ella train station, you would enjoy the rail walk, and soon as you started climbing up, you will be passing a waterfall, the rubber tree forest and tea plantations. On a rainy day, it can be slippery, so better be cautious with what you wear for the journey. Wear something suitable for a hiking and towards the end of the hike, route will get bit harder with the steep, still manageable. 

sigiriya
Sigiriya or Sinhagiri  is an ancient rock fortress located in the northern Matale District near the town of Dambulla in the Central Province, Sri Lanka. It is a site of historical and archaeological significance that is dominated by a massive column of granite approximately 180 m (590 ft) high. According to the ancient Sri Lankan chronicle the Cūḷavaṃsa, this area was a large forest, then after storms and landslides it became a hill and was selected by King Kashyapa (AD 477–495) for his new capital. \n\n He built his palace on top of this rock and decorated its sides with colourful frescoes. On a small plateau about halfway up the side of this rock he built a gateway in the form of an enormous lion. The name of this place is derived from this structure; Siṃhagiri, the Lion Rock. The capital and the royal palace were abandoned after the king's death. It was used as a Buddhist monastery until the 14th century. Sigiriya today is a UNESCO listed World Heritage Site. It is one of the best preserved examples of ancient urban planning. 

minneriya
Minneriya National Park is a national park in North Central Province of Sri Lanka. The area was designated as a national park on 12 August 1997, having been originally declared as a wildlife sanctuary in 1938. The reason for declaring the area as protected is to protect the catchment of Minneriya tank and the wildlife of the surrounding area. The tank is of historical importance, having been built by King Mahasen in third century AD. The park is a dry season feeding ground for the elephant population dwelling in forests of Matale, Polonnaruwa, and Trincomalee districts. The park earned revenue of Rs. 10.7 million in the six months ending in August 2009. Along with Kaudulla and Girithale, Minneriya forms one of the 70 Important Bird Areas (IBAs) of Sri Lanka. The park is situated 182 kilometres (113 mi) from Colombo. \n\n The area is situated in dry zone of Sri Lanka and receives an average rainfall of 1,500–2,000 millimetres (59–79 in). The lowest temperature and highest of the park are 20.6 °C (69.1 °F) and 34.5 °C (94.1 °F) respectively. The main sources of water for the tank are a diversion of Amban River and Elahera canal. The wet season lasts during the north eastern monsoon from October to January and from May to September considered as the dry season. The main habitats of Minneriya are of several types, including low-canopy montane forests, intermediate high-canopy secondary forests, scrublands, abandoned chena lands, grasslands, rocky outcrops, and wetlands.

Wasgamuwa National Park
Wasgamuwa National Park is a natural park in Sri Lanka situated in the Matale and Polonnaruwa Districts. It was declared to protect and to make a refuge for the displaced wild animals during the Mahaweli Development Project in 1984 and is one of the four National Parks designated under the Project. Originally it was designated as a nature reserve in 1938, and then in the early 1970s the area was regraded as a strict nature reserve. Wasgamuwa is one of the protected areas where Sri Lankan Elephants can be seen in large herds. It is also one of the Important Bird Areas in Sri Lanka. The name of the Wasgamuwa has derived from the words "Walas Gamuwa". "Walasa" is Sinhala for sloth bear and "Gamuwa" means a wood. The park is situated 225 km away from Colombo. \n\n The National Park's annual daily temperature is 28 °C (82 °F) and has a dry zone climate. Annual rainfall ranges between 1650–2100  mm. Rain is received during the northeastern monsoon, from October to January. July–September is the dry season. The highest elevation of the National Park is Sudu Kanda (White Mountain), which is 470 metres (1,540 ft) in height. The soil of the national park contains quartz and marble. The forests of Wasgamuwa represent Sri Lanka dry-zone dry evergreen forests. The park consists of primary, secondary, riverine forests and grasslands.